
Last evening I started tinkering a bit with Quartz (jzhao.xyz)](https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/) after a tip from this community. It was fairly easy to set up by following the documentation. 

I now have my public Zettelkasten available here:

https://zettelkasten.mischavandenburg.net

For a while I've been thinking of the direction of my blog and Zettelkasten and felt like I needed a nice way to share my more personal notes as well. Quartz is definitely the solution for this. It's meant for use with Obsidian so the linking works great and the visualization of the links on the website is phenomenal.

However, now that I know how Quartz works, I actually don't recommend it for starting your tech blog or building a personal website. It should really be used as a way to publish parts of your Obsidian vault or Zettelkasten but I don't recommend building an actual personal website or blog using this engine.

I say this for the following reason: navigation. Your personal website will be your second CV which means it will be read by recruiters and hiring managers. From my experience so far with Quartz, it seems it will be hard to create a meaningful navigation structure that will be useful to people who aren't aware of Zettelkasten / Obsidian / Digital Gardens. Hugo or Wordpress is much more suited to that because it offers a traditional menu in the top right corner and a feed of blog posts that can be scrolled through, and sorted by tags.

That being said, it's a perfect tool for maintaining a public Zettelkasten. I will be publishing everything there which I feel is safe to have publicly available. Initially I needed an outlet for publishing my notes on non-technical topics such as health, sleep and running, but I think I might also move my technical notes there as well as I go along.

I like it because it provides a nice way for people to follow what I'm currently obsessed with or working on by subscribing to the RSS feed that's generated by the website. That's the way I follow people. 

# My setup

In my Zettelkasten directory I now have a symlink to the content directory of the Quartz repo, mischavandenburg/zettelkasten on GitHub.

Every time I write a note and deem it fit for publication, I just move it to that directory by pressing cmd M followed by zp  (zp being the name of the symlink).

Then I have a cronjob that pushes this repo every 30 minutes through a script:

*/30 * * * * /Users/mischa/Repos/github.com/mischavandenburg/dotfiles/scripts/autopush

#!/bin/bash
cd /Users/mischa/Repos/github.com/jackyzha0/quartz || exit
git add .
git commit -m "Automated commit at $(date)"
git push

I'm using Cloudflare Pages to publish the public/ directory containing the generated HTML files. The Quartz documentation guides you through it and it's extremely easy to set up.

Every time the zettelkasten repo gets a new commit it will trigger a pipeline at Cloudflare which builds your new website and publishes it. Super smooth.

I highly recommend getting a domain with Cloudflare because you get to use these pages and also Cloudflare tunnels for free. In the upcoming homelab courses I will be suggesting you to get a domain there so this might be a good reason to do it as well if you're thinking of starting a blog or Quartz site. It will also work well with Hugo.


## Links:

**related to**:: [[Zettelkasten]]

202403290948